add usecase user guides for the o2ims operator (#209)
nephio-project/docs: content/en/docs/guides/user-guides/usecase-user-guides/exercise-4-o2ims.md

---
title: ORAN O2 IMS Operator Deployment
description: >
  A step by step guide to deploying a workload cluster, 
  using provisioningrequests.o2ims.provisioning.oran.org CRD.
weight: 2
---

## Prerequisites

> - A Nephio Management cluster. See the [installation guides](/content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/_index.md) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Nephio Management cluster: 
  - [installation guides](/content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/_index.md) for detailed environment options.
```

> for detailed environment options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- The following *optional* operator pkg deployed:
  - [o2ims operator](/content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/optional-components.md#o2ims-operator)

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

If using a [sandbox demo environment](/content/en/docs/guides/install-guides/_index.md#kicking-off-an-installation-on-a-virtual-machine), 
most of the above prerequisites are already satisfied.

{{% /alert %}}

This exercise will take us from a system with only the Nephio Management cluster setup, to a deployment with:

- A [workload cluster](https://github.com/nephio-project/catalog/tree/main/infra/capi/nephio-workload-cluster) specified as a template when instantiating an instance of the [ProvisioningRequest CRD](https://github.com/nephio-project/api/blob/main/config/crd/bases/o2ims.provisioning.oran.org_provisioningrequests.yaml).
- A repository for said cluster, registered with Nephio Porch.

To perform these exercises, we will need:

> - Access to the installed demo VM environment as the ubuntu user.

Reviewer: Do we want to keep this more generic than "ubuntu", or state something like "in our case as the ubuntu user"

- Access to the Nephio WebUI as described in the installation guide (optional).
- Access to Gitea, used in the demo environment as the Git provider (optional).

### Step 1: Deploy the `provisioningrequests.o2ims.provisioning.oran.org` CRD

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> After fresh docker install, verify docker supplementary group is loaded by executing `id | grep docker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a fresh docker install, verify the docker supplementary group is loaded by executing `id | grep docker`.
```

> If not, logout and login to the VM or execute the `newgrp docker` to ensure the docker supplementary group is loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If not, logout and login to the VM or execute `newgrp docker` to ensure the docker supplementary group is loaded.
```

oai-core-packages           git    Package   false        True    https://github.com/OPENAIRINTERFACE/oai-packages.git
```

Deploy the CRD
```bash
kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nephio-project/api/refs/heads/main/config/crd/bases/o2ims.provisioning.oran.org_provisioningrequests.yaml
```
Verify that the CRD is created by executing
```bash
kubectl get crd | grep provisioningrequests
```
Output
```bash
NAME                                                         CREATED AT
provisioningrequests.o2ims.provisioning.oran.org             2025-02-18T20:20:06Z
```

## Step 2: Create a new `ProvisioningRequest` CR that will create a Workload Cluster:
```bash
cat << EOF | kubectl apply -f
apiVersion: o2ims.provisioning.oran.org/v1alpha1
kind: ProvisioningRequest
metadata:
  name: edge-cluster
spec:
  name: sample-edge
  description: "Provisioning request for setting up a sample edge kind cluster."
  templateName: nephio-workload-cluster
  templateVersion: v3.0.0
  templateParameters:
    clusterName: edge
    labels:
      nephio.org/site-type: edge
      nephio.org/region: europe-paris-west
      nephio.org/owner: nephio-o2ims
EOF
```

> Verify if the provisioningrequest CR is created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify if the `provisioningrequest` CR is created
```

> Verify if the `provisioningrequest` CR is created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify if the *provisioningrequest* CR is created
```

Author: same as above

```bash
kubectl get provisioningrequests edge-cluster
```
Output
```bash
NAME           AGE
edge-cluster   7h31m
```

> Verify if `packagevariants` are created for the edge-cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify if *packagevariants* are created for the edge-cluster
```

```bash
kubectl get packagevariants
```
Output
```bashNAME                          AGE
edge-cluster                  4d12h
edge-configsync               4d12h
edge-crds                     4d12h
edge-kindnet                  4d12h
edge-local-path-provisioner   4d12h
edge-metallb                  4d12h
edge-multus                   4d12h
edge-repo                     4d12h
edge-rootsync                 4d12h
edge-vlanindex                4d12h

```

> Examine the details of the provisioningrequest CR created

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examine the details of the `provisioningrequest` CR created
```

> Examine the details of the `provisioningrequest` CR created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Examine the details of the *provisioningrequest* CR created
```

Author: same as above

  creationTimestamp: "2025-02-18T20:30:15Z"
  generation: 1
  name: edge-cluster
  resourceVersion: "2377164"
  uid: 8b17865d-60d4-47d4-b1b7-db7098340a22
spec:
  description: Provisioning request for setting up a sample edge kind cluster.
  name: sample-edge
  templateName: nephio-workload-cluster
  templateParameters:
    clusterName: edge
    labels:
      nephio.org/owner: nephio-o2ims
      nephio.org/region: europe-paris-west
      nephio.org/site-type: edge
  templateVersion: v3.0.0
status:
  provisionedResourceSet:
    oCloudInfrastructureResourceIds:
    - 5bcaf4ed-b467-4aa0-9dec-fb1517adb3f2
    oCloudNodeClusterId: 6f8759ea-f3ff-4bb5-ab8d-d0c35978f606
  provisioningStatus:
    provisioningMessage: Cluster resource created
    provisioningState: fulfilled
    provisioningUpdateTime: "2025-02-18T20:30:33Z"
```

## Step 3: Check the cluster installation

> You can check if the cluster has been added to the management cluster:

Reviewer: Semantics question: Is it technically "added" to the management cluster? Or just added to the context and managed alongside it? (asking out of curiosity too)

Author: My understanding is that the resource `clusters.cluster.x-k8s.io` gets created/added to the management cluster which references the cluster created. Not sure if that answers your question.
